The structural frame of the Arc One WAAM platform was constructed from generic 20-series aluminum T-slot extrusions to provide modularity and ease of assembly. Primary load-bearing members used 40 × 40 mm extrusions, secondary structural members used 20 × 40 mm profiles, and the gantry structure employed 20 × 80 mm extrusions to maximize stiffness in the primary dynamic load-bearing orientation. Linear motion for the cartesian co-ordinate kinematics was provided by a set of MGN15-series linear rails and carriages on all three axes. Open-loop NEMA 23 stepper motors (bipolar), paired with T8×8 ACME trapezoidal lead screws and anti-backlash nuts, drove the motion system to minimize positional hysteresis (± 0.05 mm). The platform’s build volume in its current configuration measured 425 × 625 × 225 mm (X × Y × Z). The deposition section was mechanically and thermally isolated from the frame since a standalone heavy-duty cast iron T-slot machine table was used. It measured 450 × 760 mm and weighed approximately 300 lb., featuring standard 5/8 in. T-slot rails for clamping the substrates. It was physically decoupled to prevent heat transfer and eliminate stressing the aluminum frame when stronger substrates such as steel or Inconel, distort during material deposition at high temperatures. An independent enclosure was constructed from (20-series) 40 × 40 mm aluminum T-slot extrusions to provide operator safety, spatter containment, and partial environmental control. Shade 6 flame-retardant welding screens were mounted on the vertical faces using a combination of fasteners and hook-and-loop strips to enable modular access. The top panel consisted of a 0.05 in. aluminum sheet with an integrated 2 in. duct mount for fume extraction. Most structural and mechanical components were metal, to withstand the high-temperature environment. Selected non-load-bearing fixtures such as limit switch mounts and triggers, exhaust duct connector, welding torch hose clamps, and electronics mounts were fabricated via fused deposition modeling (FDM) using engineering-grade polycarbonate (PC) for dimensional stability with high thermal resistance, over long term use.
